sup with me alright let's get started
alright guys welcome back to growth
mines today we've got a very special
guest on here today Robert Kiyosaki
thanks so much for joining us
oh it's it's an honor it's an honor you
know my dad we grew up in Korea and he
in the 1999 there was the recession
happening in Korea to the point where
he'd lost his job the stable job that he
had made good enough money but after all
the things that he thought was secure he
lost at all right and it just as soon as
you were talking about you know the
difference between the Poor Dad a Rich
Dad comparison I it was something I
completely resonated with so I'm really
excited be talking to you here today so
you you talked a lot in the book of
course for people that the few people
that don't know I mean you've got 31
million copies sold now of the Rich Dad
Poor Dad
well 31 million registered copy is 41
million but pirated copies how I would
probably talk 100 million I should do
some pirated it's insane yeah
I was this in China I was autographing
books it was like one book that was my
book in five or somebody else's but the
Pirates oh my god that's how it is I
guess alright yeah
so you the main thing that you talked
about the thing that really resonated me
with is this idea of the rich mindset
versus the poor mindset correct and I
love that you start there versus
starting out with specific strategies
you really focused on the psychology of
really helping people unlearn what
they've been taught through society
through through you know in my case
family members or culture talk to us a
little bit about the difference about
what rich person's mindset is versus a
poor mind say based on your experience
well that's a massive subject but the
primary is that I became an entrepreneur
and I had high-paying jobs
mm-hmm you know I could have sailed for
Standard Oil I was back then I was
making about forty eight thousand a year
was it sixteen sixteen hours a lot of
money yeah
and then when I then I joined the US
Marine Corps to fly in Vietnam so I
could fly so most of my friends want to
fly for United Airlines eastern and
Northwest and they all lost their jobs
and their pensions Wow
so I had the high paying jobs that
wasn't the issue I became an
entrepreneur for the opportunity to
learn I didn't have to go to
nine-to-five at any one office if you
don't I mean and I was free to go screw
up all over the world which I did and so
they make it Republic
yeah I never got there but I met some
interesting things in there I know Alex
Rodriguez also he's a massive
entrepreneur yes he is very committed to
entrepreneurship training and all that
so that that's the people I meet and the
young women I met from the Dominican
Republic sit attorney she is gorgeous
you know that's that's why I'm speaking
with - memories of the DR never having
been there feels like you've been there
basically yeah yeah my dreams anyway
gotcha gotcha so that was kind of the
the origin of how you started but yeah I
mean what do you think for for people
that pee perhaps a few people that have
not read the book what what do you feel
if you can kind of highlight the major
differences based on what you think have
impact the people the most what do you
think those are well we started off on
this is your family culture your family
values you know and the Asian culture if
you don't have at least a master's I
don't have a master's yeah I have a
Bachelor of Science which stands for BS
but other than that you know I I only
became an entrepreneur because it was
the greatest challenge I could take on
as far as my personal education personal
development you know and it wasn't to
make money you know and as I said my
first business was a nylon and velcro
surfer wallet business and the mistake I
made I was successful and we grew
internationally so fast
I just couldn't finance my success and
so I started borrowing money and which
was good I started to learn how to raise
cap on all I learned I learned how to
negotiating you know in threes I was in
Korea fighting Taekwondo
was that was out there negotiating
anyway for production because we were
manufacturing in Hawaii where the cost
of manufacturing was too too high sure
so I had to fly to Korea and Taiwan to
negotiate manufacturing I tell you man
you're not stupid until you're
negotiating against Koreans and
Taiwanese man those guys had me coming
and going up one side and down the other
but that's what I did it for yeah you
know I mean is to learn and to learn to
finance learn how to factor you know how
to how to ship and then factor my
inventory and all this stuff I learned
so much as I was going broke
successfully going broke and so when I
explained to young people that's why I
did it for that they said that's how you
get smarter but in this academic culture
you know we're just talking about Jordan
Peterson Howie yeah he rails up against
academics well the academic culture the
person who makes the most mistakes is a
stupid person but an entrepreneur the
person that makes the most mistakes and
learns from them is the smarts is this
mr. rich person so I always said a young
entrepreneurs it's not money will never
make you rich mmm
you know it's your experience you know
how much you learn the mistakes you make
the people you make and all of those
horrible experiences are all good
experiences if you learn from them
sure and that's the attitudinal
difference of an entrepreneur most guys
a small business guys and our
entrepreneurs you know the open a pizza
shop to make money and they get stuck in
that pizza shop forever you know well
that's not me and the subject of
entrepreneur is a mass of subjects he
got a drug dealer peddling drugs
he's also an entrepreneur as as Jeff
Bezos running the biggest product
pushing country little company in the
whole world
they're both entrepreneurs but the gap
between the drug dealer and basil's
massive no when I speak to young people
said what kind of entrepreneur do you
want to be and as if he's just here to
make money since now you can do that but
it's not exciting right why what do you
think they should be focusing on other
than just making money well for me was
always taxes isn't that technically more
money though more money in the bank yeah
but the problem is is when you shower
our second book called the cash flow
quadrant which is AE and
ye-yes small businesses self-employed or
a small entrepreneur BIA says for big
business five other employees or more
and I stands for professional insight
investor so if I'm buying stocks bonds
and mutual funds I'm not an insider I'm
an outsider hmm
so my goal from my Rich Dad not my poor
dad was to make it to the Bt cotton so I
have 500 employees but more importantly
to be an eye Quadrant investment those
guys on shark tank like Daymond John's
and Cuban and those guys they're their
bees and eyes the average small guy is
an Ian Ness and there's a very big
difference in taxes so I wanted to learn
the tax law so I can have my friend
Donald Trump and I wrote a book two
books together I know he's hated I know
he's hated but we're all two books
together and we make millions and pay no
taxes legally hmm that was the objective
and ideas you have a corporation where
you can deduct a lot of expenses now you
have to be very very smart amazed that
you don't deduct expenses you have to be
both a be big business yeah and then I
an insight so I invested Vince I don't
have stocks bonds mutual funds or ETFs
hmm so there is a nice my education
began when I left the Marine Corps I was
flying out of Kaneohe Hawaii and um so
what I was watching an infomercial TV I
still in the Marine Corps making back
then about seven hundred a month as a
Marine lieutenant you too can make money
in real estate so my Rich Dad says he
better learn real estate because that's
the game so other than stocks the real
estate is the only game we don't pay
taxes sure and the average person
doesn't understand that because our
flippers
if you flip a house you're paying taxes
so I don't flip either so that was all
part of the learning process of it was
like going down the maze you know this
town on that tunnel in this tunnel
sure so today when I make let's say a
million dollars and my Rich Dad company
I go to the bank and I'll borrow five
minutes my five millions I've got a five
to one leverage and with these interest
rates as fun fantastic crazy and because
I'm leveraging up my real estate I pay
no taxes
because of depreciation amortization and
appreciation hmm so that's the stuff I
was learning for my rich debt whereas my
port as it get your MBA and I lasted I
think three months in the MBA program
and then one day I woke up in the class
and my notes were all blurred I was
still flying for the Marine Corps I'm
getting spit on by all the college
students every baby killer and all this
stuff and I wake up in the class of the
it was the accounting class and my notes
were all blurred because I drooled all
over that was the last day of school for
accounting working for rich as an
apprentice just like Trump yeah we're
apprentices so I knew real accounting
versus a fake account any teach in
business school yeah yeah real
accounting is how you make sure you make
a lot of money and pay no taxes that's
it that's okay yep yeah and that's well
that was one of my valuable courses
certainly in university but we were just
talking off we're grew up with very
conservative parents right went to
McGill good University
yeah great school and just didn't
resonate so I actually ended up dropping
out and I know your first book was
talking about people dropping out an
education system how flawed it was right
oh it's it's criminal
yes it's criminal that you know they're
taking so much money from your
generation that you know student loan
debt is now bigger than the subprime
mortgage debt and to put young people in
debt like that they should take every
college professor out there and shoot
him at dawn I'm a marine you know that's
what we do to criminals I'm like kidding
but it's a criminal what they're doing
do you realize Harvard what their
endowments could hand out free education
for 150 years and not charge a thing but
instead they take the best and the
brightest allowed them but debt if their
families can't pay for it they're just
they're screwed on top of that they
learn nothing about money yeah there's a
book tailspin by phrasings but anyway
he's a yell hot yell
graduate plus he yell yell law yeah and
he writes about how arse
Yale is teaching young minds to create
derivatives
they're not teaching on Finance and you
know derivatives of what Buffett calls
financial weapons of mass destruction
and we're still producing one point you
know today we're 1.4 trillion no
quadrillion in derivatives on top of
that the young people are deeply in debt
right and there's still no financial
education air schools and online
corporations when when a student
defaults or they go into bankruptcy they
still owe the school's money right it's
the worst type of debt you can possibly
get into because there's no escape see
what if I I got crucified for this but I
have one bankruptcy on my record but it
was a corporate bankruptcy I have 27
companies so one out of 27 going
bankrupt I thought was pretty good but
of course a journalist that's all they
focus on you know you have a bankruptcy
and I said let me tell you something
numberings there's a personal bankruptcy
and there's business bankruptcies now
but you have a bankruptcy you know
that's all they care about right but
they don't know any difference yeah you
know if you have stupid journalist you
have stupid people that's why I love
Jordan Peterson because he's attacking
the actor look at the headlines right
now with Corona and her business
academic systems are out of touch with
the real world that's my complaint yeah
and next to one of my best projects a
student loan provider is building this
project that makes my place look small I
mean they're building this massive mess
all built on collecting and servicing
student loans it's massive yeah and
their sob is to work with I mean they're
my neighbors but they think because of
all this money coming in from students
they can bully me around mmm
I'm a real estate guy we just fight back
you know they encroach to my easements
and my boundaries as well you know we
got more money think we can fight you
all day less it fight me but this their
student loan guys which makes me hate
them even more yeah yeah this isn't
Phoenix I won't mention the name because
till my neighbors the trouble with real
estate you can't choose your neighbors
you know let's move out I guess but yeah
I mean this this is the major problem
with with the education system it's it's
so outdated that I mean I've heard that
the current American education system
was actually modeled after the 18th
century with in Prussia yes right and I
think it had some also influence like I
mean the whole idea is that the American
system is currently nicknamed the
factory model of Education correct in
that we're just manufacturing employees
employees and people they're out there
almost discouraging people to think in a
creative way in a world that will thrive
with creativity because everything's
going to be automated away it's just
insane
it is insane several things that I find
that I got one more 10 second book cash
flow quadrant es on the right side is B
and I and that's again that's where guys
like Mark Cuban and Daymond John's come
from you know they're they're
professional investors you acquire
companies even finance companies they
have what's called family offices not
not home businesses or family home
offices they're family offices so I have
a family office so when I when I was a
young man my rich dad said to me someday
you want a family office I said what
does that mean I got an office he goes
no no no no yes we have a whole team of
people moving your money for you because
you got so much money coming in say too
much money is a problem also cuz you got
to keep moving it so I have a family
office and that was part of the whole
process of becoming a rich was I could
learn to have a family office and the
average guy is a 401k mmm why am i
kicking his butt I don't care he went to
Harvard ok cuz but up one side and down
the other making millions not paying
taxes but keep moving my money yeah yeah
so that's education that's what I
learned
do you recommend because there are
schools obviously that are not as
expensive in America if you look at
Europe there are there are schools that
are relatively cheap Canada is still
very expensive but it's certainly not to
that level of the US so from
cost perspective if it is a lower cost
do you recommend
are there specific types of people that
should still go to school and benefit
from that if it is a little cost or
should they just have word it all
together no no no that's a very good
question because the question is what do
you want to become you want to be an
employee go to school go to McGill go to
Harvard go to Stanford yeah yeah you
want to be an entrepreneur I don't know
where you go so the way I learned that
was when I graduated from a u.s.
Merchant Marine Academy right here on
Long Island or the highest paid
graduates in the world back then there
was still ships on that seat now that
all the ships are gone because of art
our wages are too high right so back in
1969 when I graduate I was making 47,000
a year back then it was used as a yeah
and then my other classes making a
hundred twenty a year because they were
driving bomb carriers into Vietnam and
so they're in the zone for like I think
18 months almost all tax-free so you're
a 22 year old kid making 120 K a here
tax-free either two or three trips you
were finished you know two or three
years you're out but I went to Standard
Oil and then I went to fly for the
Marine Corps because the war was still I
saw a Vietnam and I said Jesus I want to
participate in this one you know I was
draft exempt because I was sailing for
oil company oil is draft exempt so I
joined the US Marine Corps I went to
flight school and that's when I realized
the value of education see if you're
gonna be a pilot go to flight school
gonna be a doctor go to medical school
you can be a dentist called a dental
school where do you go if you wanna be
an entrepreneur you know because and the
other thing too is when I was in flight
school you could already tell the good
instructors because the good instructors
had just come back from Vietnam they
were up-to-date yeah they were saying
that a damn Vietcong they changed this
they changed that and so there and so
the US Marine Corps Navy a syllabus was
sending down you should fly this way
this guy said don't you fly that way
you'll be dead tomorrow because if you
had cotton was changing we had to change
so doing one example we said I was a
gunship pilot we'd come
at 1500 a roll in and then that Russians
gave the Viet Cong was income an sa-7
you know it's called the color Strela
and Vietnam and but the Taliban used it
against the Russians and down in
Afghanistan
yeah so if you came in at 1500 with this
new technology called the sa-7 or the
Strela you were dead meat
you're coming in too high big saw of
Vietcong with absolutely no training at
all just point pull the trigger this
this heats again we're not right up
YouTube blue you are the sky so we're in
we're in flight school learning how to
fire guns and rolling in from high and
these instructors coming back you do
that you're gonna be dead and that's
where I learned the value of technology
and education and the best teachers so
some of the teachers were telling us to
come in at 1,500 feet on a gun and
rocket rod and you're saying you're
gonna be dead and so they were trained
to come with what's called death elite
with the fly below tree level hmm so
everything was changing so fast and
that's when I really understood
education better than anything else it's
education supposed to prepare you for
the real world and what's the real world
of an academic it's all theory yep yeah
and they don't have the skills for the
real world
mmm they want tenure yeah yeah and
that's the difference yeah I think I
think there are some initiatives that
are slowly started to pop up it's it's
still very in its infancy say it's like
feel fellowship the billionaire Peter
Thiel he's got this program where he
provides students $100,000 that are
entrepreneurs to start their own
business I went through something
similar in Canada where they provide
money investors co-founders to start
your own company and that's why I
dropped out but it's still so I followed
your advice Rob you know put it into
practice but you know it's it's um
it's still so far behind it's still so
far but that's the thing I'm saying is
that ENS an employee and small business
self-employed or a doctor or lawyer
specialist
yeah the mindsets are different BNI
completely different mindsets so in the
be in the eyesight you have to have a
team so it's so on to be and the
eyesight I must have a bookkeeper
because the most accurate the most
important thing I have a current records
Rich Dad Poor Dad is a book on
accounting that's all it is
it's a book on accounting with no
numbers just pictures now that's why I
made so much money on 31 million coffees
later that's the trick I'm a dude when I
doodled in school in my book anyway so
on the beyond the eyesight you have to
have the best teams so I go onto the
field you know I have a friend who is an
attorney very smart attorney he cannot
figure out why I make like 50 times more
money than he does I don't work but he's
a hard-working attorney I go welding up
on you attack you in the wrong tax
bracket and number two here lone wolf
I'll kick your ass all day long
mmm that's like going on to the football
field and taking on the Patriots you
know yeah can you can you elaborate a
little bit more on the on the tax
bracket for people that may not be aware
of what you're talking about yeah if if
you're an employee across the world is
the average tax bracket is 40 percent so
you make a hundred thousand dollars
that means 40k is going to the
government if you're a small business or
escuadrn sixty percent goes so those
guys have become small entrepreneurs
they wind up in 60% brackets so you go
there a 60 percent bracket so my
objective was to get to the I and the B
and the I that's on the B side when
you're when you have 500 employees or
more you pay 20 percent in taxes so
that's why you know we're here in New
York City when Amazon was looking to
move to New York they were gonna give
all the tax breaks possible now your
your you know Joe Schmo the computer
programmer they're not give you any tax
break at all you know you pay the high
tax lawyer and then the I quadrant is a
professional investor the insider inside
guy and the number one ass is real
estate that's the
his debt in taxes hmm so every time I
make money in the B quadrant as a
business owner I miss a 20% bracket I
then move my money into real estate and
I pay no taxes yep and that's the game
so I get the whole tax system of
capitalism is designed to make your
richer but our schools will never teach
you that which is the battle today
between you academics who are even S is
for mouths aches and then you have the
bees and the eyes their skill sets or
mind sets they're beings their spirits
are different so like you know when when
they kick basil's out no problem he just
moved yeah so for an entrepreneur that
wants to one day start the business and
they understand now because you hear
that the school system that they're
currently in is not going to provide
them that or their let's say a parent is
watching and they know that you know
their their student is gonna be part of
the stem field let's say what should
they do should they go out there and
drop out like I did and try to start
their business and take that risk what
are the waste transition off of that
well that's the reason I wrote Rich Dad
Poor Dad
and then the quadrant so it gave guys
like you kind of a roadmap I mean
there's so many different ways you can
make get there and then a third book
switch dad's guide to investing the I
quadrant I quadrant the key and as a
professional investor I used the I
quadrant to analyze businesses hmm look
I just invested an education company and
are you a traitor what's wrong with you
why investing an education company
that's a who funds education companies I
don't know the government so that's why
these charter schools and all that
they're pretty good investments mmm
because your source of income is the
government because you know the whole
Constitution says every child must have
an education so they might be teaching
them garbage but I like the source of
funds because here the other side of the
table the entrepreneur has no skills and
say you know I've got a PhD but I can't
sell
I can't negotiate I don't have any
professional skills and all this
I don't care of a pitch you know
invest in you but if you say to me the
federal government's gonna give you a
million dollars a month to teach kids
suddenly I like you a lot cuz it's the
federal government your capitalist here
I'm not that mercenary now pretty close
pretty close to that and then I'm just
going to invest that money in real
estate yeah yeah yeah let's talk about
money so we talked about this idea of
the rich mindset we understand how
broken the education model is because
it's it's a lot of it as we mentioned
modeled backs to the 18th century of
Prussia and in the factory system it was
- what you're talking about it had two
purposes one to train employees and
second to train soldiers people would
just do us or toll without thinking
right was that because they were
fighting Prussia and they realized how
efficient the soldiers were in the war
and they wanted to model after that well
they were taking farmers right you see
the whole thing went agrarian Industrial
today technology so back then they were
trying to get these farmers were pretty
independent little guys and they work
for themselves so they're trying to try
them from farmer knows s quadrant
self-employed to employees mm-hmm
or soldiers right people who would to us
are told and the education system hasn't
been updated since that time it's
actually gone backwards in my opinion
mmm you know what way well there are
misinforming and miss educating look the
biggest thing for an entrepreneur is
you've got to learn how to make mistakes
and then a school punishes you're making
mistakes second you have to operate in a
team you know everybody talks about team
except in school if you take tests as a
team you call it cheaters so just those
two Minds constructs mmm the average guy
goes out there afraid of making a
mistake and starts a business in the
native state obviously then they don't
have a team gotcha gotcha and their odds
are stacked against them yeah so I
started my wife and I started with a
bookkeeper why a bookkeeper because the
number one thing an entrepreneur must
have is accurate records I meet so many
guys show up and they said well your
records they want me to fund their
company
many records have no numbers I thought
how do I know if you're good or bad oh
it's a good concept we're doing a lot of
gonna change the world this is like a
revolutionary concept we're good people
yeah you know I have a master's in art
yeah we're from the same city you know I
know yeah yeah we grew up together yeah
yeah oh I had this one guy all I was
paying for my classmate Hawaiian guy you
know Hawaiians of a different culture
than the Japanese culture and when I was
he wanted two million dollars as for
watch because all of my kids are
unemployed no I wasn't the real reason
was it he says they've all lost their
jobs he wanted just a loan money no I
was supposed to give him the money cuz
we're family that's all crude no no but
this I'm not trying to pick on the
Hawaiians yeah they what do they call
the the people from Oh Egypt what do
they call these guys who I don't forget
their culture is if you have something
it's mine gypsies my friend is a gypsy
and he says in the Gypsy culture that if
you have to one of theirs what but then
I started thinking about my friends you
know my classmates who were hardcore how
why is it great people they can sing and
dance and all this but family is
everything and so his family's hurting
and I have extra it's up to me because
we're all part of the same family to
help each other is that like an
expectation yeah its cultural and that's
what really hurts most entrepreneurs is
like we started a whole conversation
what's your family culture well we have
families belief systems
what were their values you know and they
all play a factor inside your success in
so called the real world outside of the
family
mm-hm and I'm not blaming my friend was
Hawaiian cuz you know there
I'm just saying as this culture was
different than mine yeah the same as my
fam my culture is different my own
family my brothers and sisters all have
master's degrees and all that I'm going
they said their kids to college I'm
going oh have a good time you know but
they still bullied Japanese still
believe in college and saving money and
job security
yeah well becoming a government employee
sure I'd rather shoot myself yeah I mean
Japanese and cuz we had Steve Aoki Feliz
Steve Aoki at all no he's like a big DJ
guy younger guy but in his 40s now but
also Japanese that's really young and my
age you look 40 up but he also resonate
the same thing
Koreans are the same way right we're
probably one of the most conservative
societies when it comes to that because
we grew up in the you know in Korea they
called the chaebol I think Japan what
they call it I don't know it was a
conglomerate days right where a couple
of companies own the entire correct
economy there and they're just so used
to they're just so used to living in
that world well the Japanese had a thing
called Kumi I yeah company I was that we
feel lived in the same neighborhood in
Hawaii and you live in you're a Japanese
all the Japanese stuck together mmm and
my father who was six foot four for
Japanese is pretty big
the Kumi I would come and talk to our
family about the Japanese sticking
together
my father throw him out and he's a other
joke he says look we're Americans
get that in your head right now you know
so I had I had this conflicting cultural
values sure sure so again the fog every
entrepreneur first thing you must
inspect is what was your cultural
heritage nothing that's right or wrong
mmm the values you just struggle with
that when you were growing up oh I see
when I wrote Rich Dad Poor Dad I was I
must went to the devil for that one you
know good Japanese you don't ever
criticize your father same is China
I mean Korean and Chinese right father
is the king yeah it's very patriarchal
yeah so when I was asked well how do you
feel about writing a book about your
father said well he's dead
I had I had to wait for him to die
before I wrote the book because he would
have killed me my family was ready to
kill me yeah how did you how did you
overcome that because that didn't go
over well either oh my god were you
close to them though when you're growing
up yeah I had great father my both my
rich dad my poor that were great men but
they both respect there are two opposite
guys you know one guy really believed in
school but he didn't know what he
doesn't know and my rich dad never went
to school and you know he didn't know
what he didn't know but the to make kind
of a whole education so one was a
capitalist one was a socialist yeah and
so that we have Bernie Sanders versus
Donald Trump and all this other stuff
cause it's kind of historical it's tough
when you step back you look out from
values you know I mean you got to in the
race now right Joe Biden and Bernie
Sanders well do you realize that if I
ran for office I'd be younger than all
of them that's crazy it's great it's
crazy
no wonder Biden can't remember things I
can't remember can I get in a taxi
anymore Jesus Christ we also had Andrew
hang on he's doing good he's he just
announced something that he's starting
called new humanity Ford a lot of people
thought he was running for mayor Ashley
for New York which he still might I'm
not sure I don't think he's announced
that but he's starting a non-profit
basically I know the game chuckle and
laugh all the time well I could
introduce you if you want I don't
understand how they can pay you know I
fought for capitalism mmm I realized
it's 80/20 nose it's called prey dolls
long trails long yeah 80/20 rule right
something like that
so 20% of the people need socialism they
need to be taken care of but 80 percent
can make money on their own so why would
I give somebody with the capability to
pay 80 percent get my money sure doesn't
make sense to me what did you think
about the ubi
I'm assuming you say well I think
unfortunately it's coming just because
our school systems teacher
people to be victims you know I don't
know if you saw me on Patrick ben-david
you know that guy's guy's a genius ma'am
I loved working with him he's smart yeah
yeah oh is he smart nice guys I used to
work with Tony Robbins and he has that
quickness of brain yeah I'm a little
Hawaiian a little smaller anyway he goes
he goes I told him said you know during
the agrarian age the church was the
center so every small town had a church
so it's very spiritual and that was a
culture I wish if today in Dutch
relation that weaponry came up so we
could now kill you know they went from
swords to guns machine guns to rockets
to drones you know so during the
industrial age they started building
statues to war heroes so that was a you
know as a Marine to have the Marines
raising the flag on Iwo Jima and the
robert e lee and grant and so everybody
respected war heroes and stuff like that
now they're tearing down robert e lee
and grant and all these guys because
America is now worshipping the victim to
brutality the victim mentality and
that's what I said on Patrick met David
and a couple of my friends called me sir
you're an asshole
and I said well you're entitled to your
opinion but I've been called better you
know stuff like this but I said we're
raising victims our schools are pumping
out victims and the reason I like this
guy Jordan Peterson yes he says it's not
what a person stands for you see that he
did this great thing it's one of the
against he says a lot of times they'll
stand up there's a well I stand for
socialism but they're really against the
rich and so that's why I wouldn't talk
about Andrew yang a Pete Budaj edge and
all this stuff I wonder what they're
really stand for what what are they
really fighting for so I'm up front with
you I'm fighting for capitalism yeah you
know I fight for education that we
should have better education I'm not
saying anything else inside that I don't
have a hidden agenda sure sure no when
these guys are talking about we're gonna
fix the
all less I said yeah what does that mean
and so what Jordan Peterson says there
this is there against a rich mmm they're
not for the homeless against the rich
and that's where most of the people in
the left arm I don't know that because
I'm not political not Republican or
Democrat you don't have any religious
agenda you know you can't believe in God
fine time I don't even gotta fine but
it's I want to know what you really
stand for not what you pretend to be
standing for yeah see what Andrew yang
says it's gonna start a non-profit
there's a capitalist I already know he
can't raise capital because look I am
I'm doing the same thing but I can raise
capital you know I'm I'm a hardcore
teacher yeah what do you think is the
difference between you and Andrew yang
in that case can't raise capital not an
entrepreneur so what's the skillsets
that missing I don't know figure out
pretty quickly look I understand
something I don't have stocks bonds
mutual funds you know why why I could
make up my own assets hmm I wrote this
book called Rich Dad Poor Dad 31 million
copies to make five dollars a book you
do the math on that one
I create my cash flow game I think I
make six sex six or seven dollars a game
in 50 languages I know how to sell yeah
but don't you have to invest that money
once you make it so that it's less risky
as I don't even need money that's the
worst part the next book I'm coming out
with it's called the infinite return is
that when you have the mindset of a
capitalist you don't need money okay
rule number one I'm Rich Dad Poor Dad
rich don't work for money most people
miss that one but that goes back to 1971
when Nixon took us off the gold standard
yeah and money became fake money yeah so
anyway my rich I was preparing me to
think about how can I make money without
making without money and the way I do it
I created an asset like a book
I'm not saying write books cuz that's
tough industry but I write a book today
I sell 50 licenses to 50 different
languages and I collect royalties for
years a long tail yeah
so my money just keeps coming in from
with that I so let's say I make ten
dollars in a book I'll borrow fifty
dollars to invest in real estate
I step up my basis for the appreciation
of hybridization and appreciation okay
that's financial education yeah that
garbage they teach you about and invest
for the long term of the stock market
why would I do that when I can make up
my own assets yeah you know that's what
entrepreneurs do every entrepreneur
should be making up their own assets the
staying out of the stock market that's
my point of view but can everybody do it
now of course not
sure okay I've screwed up enough times
to prove I can do it and my accountant
will back me up yeah the guy is an idiot
but he does create assets yeah you have
this great core competency which is the
ability to communicate something that's
very complicated or what has been made
complicated because why would people go
to school and pay for that money if it
sounds simple so you made it really
compal using pictures and everything and
you've been able to find leverage it's
said that you can find leverage through
people capital or especially now it's
media and software yeah and you've been
able to do all three of those edge right
you know rich that's a brand yeah yeah
no it's impressive what you've done it's
amazing but I can sell that's why my
first job when I left the Marine Corps
was to join Xerox I can learn how to
sell because of being Japanese right I
was really shy yeah yeah I could kill
people from the sky as a Marine you know
decorated hero and all this crap but I
couldn't pick up a girl in the bar and
when I said that to my rich that is does
your sex life sucks doesn't it I said oh
it's terrible Isis because you can't
sell you can't sell and so he says if
you don't sell you never you're gonna be
lonely and horny all your life so I kind
of inspired me to learn us yeah yeah so
I joined sea rocks you know I mean but
you have to do what it takes
mmm very smart guy you can't sell he
doesn't know how to create an asset so
something to give him the money I think
that's a how to invest that money as he
pays no tax on it that's why yes ago he
has to go the tax exempt although what
do you call that I don't even think I
don't think in their words well he has
been able to raise insane amounts of
money as tax deferred you know I mean
for tax yeah advantage you're saying
yeah he's just in the wrong system I
mean he's been good for himself yes but
as an entrepreneur
I'm kind of in the same you thought
about ubi right yeah
universal basic income run the opposite
size of the camp but I understand why he
does it yeah if you're an entrepreneur
you don't need a ubi you don't even need
a job
think about that see that's where you're
going right now you will eventually
never need a job and you'll never need
money if you keep pushing the boundaries
of your mental abilities that's called
the infinite return yeah when I write a
book I have no money in the deal and I
collect money for the rest of my life
the royalties yeah yeah
now Realty I mean that's what Richard
Branson did basically revitalizing swamp
results as her tribe does as well that's
what it is all stars also
how does bassist do that well here's a
company that he has all his millions of
people working from the money float so
he floated on the stock market which is
all free money he would have become a
billionaire if he was selling just
Amazon he took he floated on Wall Street
yeah that's what that's the game it's on
the B and the I side absolutely so let's
get into we're talking about Jeff Beezus
we're talking about from let's let's get
into the average middle-class person
that is perhaps starting this little
learning your concepts they're getting
benefit from it but they're not making
hundreds of million dollars yet right
someone that's 25 probably has two
hundred thousand dollars in savings for
someone that has that amount of money
how do you think they should invest it
well I mean everybody's different this
was a the first the first inspection
that's why the one that guys like is
Eckhart Tolle to lle and all in Paris
anger it's all these new guys that
they're the new spiritualists coming out
they're like the new Jesus or Buddha or
Muhammad's you know and I think you have
to have a spirituality to you it's I'm
not saying if religion does it's why
you're fine you know but it never worked
for me I flunked out of Sunday School
also but anyway there's a point where
you have to have some faith in your
abilities right and guidance and so I
know if I do what I consider the right
thing
well what would you do if you worst went
e5 today and you have $50,000 in the
bank would you invest it back into
yourself with the education because that
amount of money is not going to do that
much like damage in the market or real
estate or or is it an insight is it
different if you have $500,000 no no
yeah that's right yes you know that's
why you know most guys was it every most
major league athletes are broke within
six years or something they lose
everything
sure or a lottery winner yeah cuz money
never makes you rich and so the thing is
they invest in your life experiences
your mentors and so the story of Rich
Dad Poor Dad is it choosing between two
different teachers mmm you know if I
followed my poor dad I'd probably be a
government employee in Hawaii you know
or a tenured teacher yeah so it's it's a
hard choice yeah you got to choose your
teachers wisely and your life
experiences like we're talking about I
took you know three companies public
through Toronto
I mean it's refers to a VC Vancouver
Stock Exchange and that I migrated to
the Toronto Stock Exchange why did I do
that to learn learn to how how to raise
capital on public markets now the
average ought to put are never does that
you know they keep opens a pizza shop
and they open two piece of shops that's
that's about it because there is it just
for that money I wanted to learn
something so I took my first first was
an oil company and Portugal I took that
public and IRA told me there's no oil in
Portugal and I found out the hard way
they're right a company crashed and
burned like a airplane coming out of the
sky you know and then the next thing I
started a sulphur company in Argentina
and we struck silver and we did very
well yeah and then I started a gold
company in China and the Chinese took it
so that was a priceless experience you
know yeah aren't you better I go yeah
but that's what I did it for you
understand that I did it for that hmm so
you're saying people that have let's say
50 thousand a hundred thousand they
should just go out there look for a
teacher and look for experience
education take risk no life make
mistakes gotcha
worry about like making 10% in the stock
market you're saying that's a waste of
time I mean it depends on you
I don't sure stock market to make money
I got that to raise capital but not to
make money mm-hmm
so there's oh there's so much to learn
that's that's the biggest problem it's
like I said you know the guy pushing
drugs on the straight he's no different
than Jeff Bezos with Amazon just the
scale those guys on drugs must be yeah
and I run into you
oh yeah those guys sighs II travel yeah
my father ran for a political office ran
for lieutenant governor at the poor dead
the first person at the kissed kissed a
ring on is the crime criminals it what
Hawaii yeah well that's you know the
governor who was a guy named Burns John
Burns his partner was I think something
but there were partners yeah both police
officers one was on the side of the
government when was the site of the
crime that's that's the game
sure I think people better wake up that
the Mafia and those guys have real
characters I mean they really are in
business all over the world yeah you
know and if you think they're not then
you're living in dreamland so my father
had to kiss the ring of the sky nappy
pallava who was the head of one one
Hawaiian syndicate in Hawaii and you
gotta play the game politics of the
dirty dirty game sure there's a book
called sunny sky shady characters and
it's about the chronic run the crime
syndicates of Hawaii you know my father
the reason I recommend to all my friends
is beep you know why because that's my
father was talking about you know in
Hawaii the Supreme Court justices they
got caught to the Supreme Court justices
of Hawaii these highly esteemed men got
caught up in all this crime through
Kamehameha Schools yeah
criminal operations all of crazy yeah so
I'm not saying I'm a pessimist I'm
saying just be aware you know that's
like psycho why can't we all hold hands
singing Kumbaya we'll get rid of the
police we'll get rid of the military all
live together yeah yeah sure
yeah you know that I think that's what
the leftist rightist
no I'm not Republican or Democrat people
live in dreamland you know wake up this
is a real world and there's people gonna
steal know the book I'm gonna write as
hiring thieves oh Jesus I can't believe
how many times I've had an employee
steal from me I'm going thank God I
couldn't do it not that I must say not
that I'm going under shirtless with
Saints but several times I've lost a lot
of money because I hired the people that
steal from me have you improved how you
read people it's almost impossible but
you have to I mean it's my fault I mean
I I take full responsibility because you
know I didn't you know as Reagan said
trust but verify
yeah the trouble is that people verify
with the guys I didn't start in the
wrong foot basically well the first guy
that stole all my money was my
accountant in my nylon wallet business
Stanley my CPA and he was so afraid that
we're gonna go down and we did go down
but he went to get his money out first
so I raised a hundred thousand extra I
brought it in this was years and years
ago as a kid and Stanley says I since
the Stanley says sadly well this help
does this solve the problem he goes yeah
I forgot that to find whose problem it's
solved Stanley's problem and he ran off
with it
now again yeah it was the best thing
that happened to me cuz I woke up mm-hmm
and I think the four young people I
think that's really the thing keep
waking up keep learning on the good side
you meet some of the best people on
earth like my team of advisors right now
we all came about because of bad
partnerships like Kenny Mac Arroyo he
we've made millions together in real
estate I met him through a bad partner
Andy and I started talking something
just how could we be so stupid
because we're so stupid with the same
partner if and I mean sure well we met
each other I said well let's not do that
to each other we made millions it's
amazing yes
there's always a silver lining but
you've got to look for it and be aware
there's people who do not really
subscribe to your philosophies sure they
come from different backgrounds yeah I
mean after after University I went
straight to Argentina had no idea this
is happening it's getting worse now but
their local selling me that they woke up
one day and money money in the bank
ice appeared I said you know my kid
brothers on Hawaii the greatest guy you
know I took him to our Jen Tina because
he wouldn't wake up so we're out there
in Argentina I should induce my friend
friend was an engineer you know about
probably about younger than my brother
and I and he says I was a millionaire in
Argentina with US dollars and one day I
woke up and the money was gone and so
the bank said oh don't worry we'll give
you a million back in pesos so my
brother sat there and he says is this
why you brought me here I said yeah wake
up because you're Japanese Japanese save
money and Japan is the most screwed up
country financially because they're all
highly educated savers when they're
gonna wake up you know Japan's debt to
GDP I think is like two hundred and
forty percent right now it's the worst
in the whole world they'll save money if
the Japanese didn't save money you know
Japan would be gone my friends inside
Japan say the banks now lend debtors
money so the debtor can pay the bank
back hmm so what happens the debtor gets
deeper in debt but the back looks like
everybody's paying their bills and I
said Japanese in the world for Pocket
adi which is an idiot okay and the
Japanese are very good people you know
how hard-working diligent and all this
they have no financial education they
believe in saving money
the Yakuza is their mafia it runs
rampant through that place yeah and they
still pretend yeah well saving money in
this day and age I mean I think Warren
Buffett's got 132 billion dollars in
cash right now
because there is probably going to be
some sort of a recession
people say it's a correction right now
because of the corona but it's a rough
time what are your thoughts on all this
well I love crashes you know like the
best time to get registered in a crash
the problem is this time I think this
crash might last a long time the 1929
crash last 25 years that's how long it
lasted I think this one this one might
be at least 20 years
this next depression because the the
number the numbers are so astronomical
look I said if Japan is 260 percent debt
to GD 242 and 60 percent America is 115
percent debt to GDP that's much and
increasing a trillion dollars a year
mm-hmm how we gonna pay it back and then
in my book here who stole my pension the
pensions are bankrupt it defined benefit
pensions for school teachers
firefighters and police officers SME
between 9 to 14 trillion dollars
underfunded hmm what's gonna happen very
goes down you know so that's why I set
my watch I go this one might be a long
one and just today as we're talking to
tenure went below 9% below 1%
you can't keep printing money it's never
worked in history at least as far as I
know so that's what I watch on the other
side of it it's a great time to be an
entrepreneur because if you're smart you
have a good spirit and you you'll learn
quickly so the greatest the greatest
thing about entrepreneurs how fast can
you learn you know when you look at the
seven deadly sins
the biggest tragedy is ego said ego or
Van Van glory is the road straight to
hell and so you got a you know I tell
you I've made mistakes I tell you I
screwed up I'm definitely on the short
list for Saint but you've got to be
honest and people trust you and they
better keep your word you know you're
only as good as your word yeah so
actions and words must be integrity
gotcha gotcha yeah a lot of the best
businesses have started when when there
was a recession there was this idea of
uh
Nassim Nicholas Taleb I'm sure your
family he is my hero I'm fragile
stronger looming diamonds get stronger
right
as as an under-pressure so it's it's a
it's a very interesting concept but
people fear it people a lot of people
fear it yeah but he's you know his
lesson as you go to the gym he gets
stronger hurtful Oh up they get stronger
and people are coming out of school
weaker today
that's what disturbs me you know and
then you know Patrick Beth David man
he's okay that guy is amazing what he's
teaching yeah and so there's many young
guys coming up there are teaching
brilliant stuff and that's YouTube you
know which which is a whole new channel
right is social media now the channel so
if you're in traditional media you're in
trouble
mmm but if you're moving with the trends
you're good good shape right now sure
sure
that's a difference well this you
Nicholas Taleb also talks about in Black
Swan he talks about this idea of the
barbell strategy right where he kind of
uses like the S&P as like an analogy
where most people think medium this idea
of like putting yourself into medium
risk is the safest option when in fact
you're not really getting much of the
upside but you're getting all of the
downside as well so you're allocating
risk in a way that is not actually
helping you diversify and you're
actually putting yourself in more risk
and he advocates this idea of putting
yourself into very riskiest in a small
amount and the rest into let's say in
this case cash bonds and that way even
bonds are in trouble now bonzer I guess
yes most likely cash where it's very
liquid when I was your age the smart
guys were in bonds nobody was in stocks
mmm today her place in stocks and behind
something only Michael sure okay sure
well what are your thoughts into this
idea of barbell strategy where there is
a symmetric returns where let's say you
put ten percent into something that's
super risky the maximum you can lose is
that ten percent so you still have that
90 percent still uphold
oh is it post upon the person like I'm
saying I encourage anybody listening to
this or any entrepreneur get to the
point where you don't need money it's
called the infinite return and that's my
next book coming out next year yeah when
you get to the point where you don't
need money
you're home free
you'll never need money you don't care
you could always put a deal together you
can always create an asset out of
nothing you know it's like I don't know
what else it's the power of God given
power so like I said when I write a book
I'm selling 50 copies 50 licenses day
one hmm
let's say I get 10,000 a license how
much is that fifty times ten thousand
five hundred thousand fifty times ten
thousand yeah yeah so I'm in I'm in the
black immediately what does it cost me
maybe ten thousand to write a book you
know I'm in the black the same thing if
I trade a stock I'll buy a stock a
dollar it goes up to ten and I sell so I
have all free trading stock I have no
money and that's what Buffett's doing
well infinite return guys sure you have
no money into the deal you can do
anything what are other examples that
you would recommend stocks you mentioned
both real estate was my first my first
deal was I bought a condo on the island
of Maui for eighteen thousand bucks and
I gave him a credit card to put the mm
so $1,800 ten percent down payment and I
made 25 bucks for it
mm-hmm so I made 25 bucks from no money
at all 100% debt I love debt and the
average guy's afraid of Ted so if you
it's just mindset this is what you know
how do you practice I have made a lot of
mistakes I've never lost money in real
estate mmm never because I invest a lot
in my financial education in real estate
why debt add taxes the more I can use
all the debt I want and pay no taxes I
love it I love it there's a god
somewhere why would I buy stocks I don't
understand that game you can make money
quickly sure and stocks are good because
they're illiquid I mean they're liquid
you can get out of the stocks real quick
and real estates dangerous because you
can't get out of it but that's how I've
gotta study more so anyway you know the
biggest thing I can say to any
entrepreneurs just learn be an active
learner low ego be you know it's tough
when you're successful because when my
now on a vertical sort of all the
business went to the moon
I was crashing down right after I
thought I walked on water
there was no water there's only air
below me so having the hard way you know
well having learned that is is your flow
now is it that you have you know talking
about ESPI
is your flow now you have these active
businesses let's say you know books or
businesses well you use the profits from
that and you invest all of it into real
estate is that come on oh no I only
invest in a real list right now I'm out
of the real estate mark I mean I still
have my real estate holdings but I'm not
aggressively buying because the prices
are too high private equity and the
hedge funds went into a real estate and
now it makes no it's like the stock
market's a disconnect between the price
and the value so these guys as my my
best friend just came a billionaire
because he took all of his real estate
holdings and soullow to a hedge fund mmm
he's laughing all the way so it's gonna
crash on him fake valuations good height
it's based upon today's valuations maybe
not tomorrow's interesting yeah so he's
yeah you know I had a race who's gonna
be first millionaire I beat him he beat
me to a billionaire so his idea is that
he sold to a hedge fund once the house
tonight where King goes crashing down
he's just gonna buy it all back I don't
correct the fraction of the price
correct
gotcha because manual labor you're
working with your mind your body your
spirit any emotions you know I just sure
timing things observing things you have
to have good friends people you trust
implicitly yeah and like I have a
fantastic staff you know I trust him and
I'm some of my people have been around
me for 20 years
my saw my best partners are 40 years
mm-hmm
yeah we know we trust each other so that
takes time just also been a lot of
crooks along the way yeah so I'm like I
found out I'm on mentioned names but
some of my my CEO and my president was
stealing money again recently mmm so
they can't sell
yeah my friend was my accountant Tom we
alright you says you know he looks up
returns all the time is people who can't
sell steel you're saying they're not
actually stealing money but they're
stealing time and valuable resources
from you they're actually stealing wood
yeah because they're not selling enough
you're saying they don't know so okay
but they're not actually going in and
stealing money from you just so many
ways you can series sake but you're
you're I get what you're saying but yeah
okay one of the best experiences I have
you know I was a young marine I was in
Hawaii you know I still couldn't chase
women because I was so shy yeah so I got
a job working as a manager of a
nightclub in Waikiki and so it was with
the big back today is called Westin I
don't know what it was back then
sure so that's the general manager comes
them talked to me says hey your PC is
too high what species as your pork count
somebody stealing alcohol somebody
that's stealing alcohol but they're not
charging for drinks
he says catch him for six months I could
not figure it out I couldn't figure out
how the bar churners and the cocktail
waitress were stealing money from me hmm
so I told my rich did that is I told you
so what's that he says if your
bartenders and waitresses are smarter
than you don't get into the business and
my other friend I was gonna buy a
professional team and he said to me he
says you were gonna buy professionals
yeah which sport baseball baseball okay
no just not because I like baseball but
just because the baseball team was in
trouble and I was gonna buy it and see
that there was money to be made yeah but
I do it I do it because I wanna learn
not because it interests a team so I ran
the numbers around the process of from
about the business and all that
and finally this friend of mine came out
to meet us he says and he's an NBA
player for 18 years he says I'll give
you AB lesson number one in business
what's that it's never invest in a
business where the employees make more
than you do
interesting and that's why it didn't
work yeah because the more successful
the team got the more money the
employees made you could never win he
says until you flip it yeah yes I don't
want to do that so anyway those you go
please listen to all you entrepreneurs
out there
it's the biggest learning adventure you
can go to go through even the bad
lessons are good lessons if you have the
humility to learn from them yeah I mean
I like your mindset because your whole
thing is you're going into these
different projects and you you have this
growth mindset we're talking on growth
minds obviously but you're always in it
to learn something new anti fragile mmm
so that's Nassim Taleb he said the
moment you go into the unknown you're
getting destabilized but you're getting
Stape you're getting stronger and the
average person they want security and
less risk they getting stupider and less
less fragile more fragile yeah so you
become anti fragile when you take you go
into the unknown sure I explained that
to my company said and my company said I
don't care if you make a mistake I do
care don't tell me about it you know
gotcha big difference
speaking of unstable we're probably in a
very fragile market right now and a lot
of people are many ways freaking out
what do you recommend people do in a
market that is potentially heading into
depression should they be saving cash
and thinking about you know becoming
more liquid like what are some of the
things like they should do well it
depends upon the cash if you if you're
in argentine pesos yeah I wouldn't touch
it I'd say of gold and silver see that
what's his name what's his hedge waters
hedge with no bridge water's going great
Dahlia yeah he says it depends upon the
currency you're in sure he says so like
Zimbabwe their debt is financed with
external money mmm Japan is internally
financed so that's why the depression
doesn't hurt them as
so you have to learn so much about that
so I own millions and millions and
millions and millions and millions and
golds I started buying gold in 1973 when
it was the illegal of America's own gold
and I like gold and silver because
there's no counterparty risk there's no
other party to it gold and silver are
God's money hmm so people's was not a
good investment I said yeah but I sleep
at night what's that worth
yeah sure so I don't care for the dollar
the dollar is corrupt u.s. dollars
corrupt but it's the strongest currency
in a horrible currency world yeah so if
you're us save dollars you're in
Argentina
don't say save gold right say Bitcoin
you think Bitcoin would be bitcoins got
those problems too you're saying I would
so when you say save money he gotta say
what what currency yeah what currency
sure yeah it's like the swiss franc used
to be the strongest currency of all but
now they're back by the fang stocks and
so I'm kind of backing off of the Swiss
whatever they use I don't even know
anymore I just you know just instinctive
is sure sure I mean the Argentine's what
what I found interesting was the way we
look at goal because I think you're
completely dead on the way we look at
golden as a way of hedging the
Argentine's look at Bitcoin and the way
you look they look at US dollars right
as a way to hedge that correct that's
more stable
I think you're spot-on with that yeah
for sure what's funny about Canada
though all right how much gold you guys
got I don't know a lot of no yeah just a
silly uh say English but there's so much
land that but they have a lot of gold
they stoled off their goal I just
I don't know they just got their gold
but they have gold in the ground what's
good cuz you know Kenna's resource-rich
that's not gonna it's that deep Oh
Robert we got a piston people I thought
this pie yes how many people we did so
far how far we go smarter than your
politicians my guys gonna be canceled
what about him I don't care you know
yeah I'd be smarter than them you're not
dependent on them yes because of inter
translate you know pretty your own
assets and so what Bernie says is
Trump's is that if Biden says this
should I go okay good good good or yang
says this I still gotta be smarter than
them with my money this is my money
sure and if you hope if you're hoping
that Trump you know Trump's my friend
I'm not counting him to save my money
for me mm I'm not counting on him
gotcha Andrew yang once you bi universal
basic income as mmt you know Marxist
money theory I think it's I think you
gotta look at it's a comedy show
yeah I mean it's pretty it's a reality
show for sure what's up in there I mean
it's just it's a gone fest you got the
Donald you know on one side reality show
you still talk to him by the way no no
no the last time I talked to me he
announces me he was on my show my radio
show says I'm gonna run for president I
said good for you I burst and far away
from me because all he's a target did
you think it was a joke though nice good
guy I mean if you said things he
shouldn't say and Brian right I mean he
could be a good guy but also there's no
exactly as you see but I'm not into
politics so yeah I listen to Bernie
Sanders I give the guy a lot of credit
you know I mean to admit to be a
socialist in America as Mexicans friends
would say big cojones and Pete's and
Pete Buddha just you know a gay guy you
know no I'm this I'm going you know I
don't know if he's the husband or the
wife but yeah I've gotta give everybody
about angling thank you to catch it it's
a catchy headline now watch all the
stuff it's a TV show as far as I'm
concerned but if you're counting on them
you're a bigger idiot than they are you
know
so and then Pocahontas I just love her
you know she you're sounding like a real
Republican right now I'm a cartoon
you're just observing this this whole
scenery yes I still have millions in
gold and I still have my real estate I'm
still offshore many things at all pay
any taxes she's legally yeah so I can
laugh if you're not there yet can't
laugh but I wouldn't count on those guys
and save my ass right that's all I'm
saying if you're going to be an
entrepreneur it's gonna be the biggest
adventure of your life as long as you
want to keep learning but if you just
want to make a few bucks you'll be taxed
to death yeah that's the S quadrant ESPI
that's the problem and yes you know
small business loans oh no they don't
give me any money it's hard to raise
capital as an S you sure crowdfunding
and all that stuff but I'd rather go to
Wall Street I'd rather raise my own
capital yeah but those are skill sets so
I say to every entrepreneur look at us
the biggest education plan you'll ever
go through you know I don't keep that
college degree or not but you better you
better learn really quickly fast have
good people around you and keep studying
yep yep well right let me let me end off
cuz I know you came in because you wrote
this book called who stole my pension
talk to us a little bit about what
people don't know about pensions that
what the average person does not
understand about how pensions work today
well the pensions are bankrupt they're
gone you know my father my poor dad
worked for the government and he lost
his pension in 1972 and he still told me
to go and get a job and all that so my
poor dad became a poor man when I lost
his job his paycheck in his pension how
did he lose it like he just got ran
against the governor see the governor
was a crook in John Burns police officer
if you read the book sunny sky shady
characters you'll find out exactly this
he's an investigative report for his
name now but he said everything my
father was saying to me
they're all buddies this shady sky sunny
a character starts with Don Ho
nice Don Ho they were all in cahoots
Supreme Court justices were all in
cahoots with Kamehameha Schools the most
richest school system in America for
Hawaiian kids and all these estates just
ripping people off so my father after he
became the governor staff resigned and
he said I cannot in good conscience
ethically morally and legally I cannot
be part of your staff so he made the
mistake of running against him this
while I was in Vietnam stunts
you know defending the country from I
don't know who but anyway I come home my
father's banker he's bankrupt no pension
no paycheck no pet no no job and he
still telling me to go back to school
get my PhD yes I got white up like you
we said go fly for the airlines he read
who stole my pensions my guys my friends
who flew for you that it they're all
broke nobody knows this right but why is
this happening to everyone that has all
over the world it says back here on the
back of lever who stole my pension
what's America's number-one export toxic
assets derivatives it's still
manufacturing subprime mortgages so is
there stuff that cuz my mom's of nurses
she's under a pension plan the union
members are for people that are aren't
you are like are to relying on pensions
or have family members or friends that
aren't pensions what can they do
especially that's how I wrote the book
because some not all pensions are bad
but understand CalPERS which is the
biggest state pension plan in America is
California State Teachers their one
trillion underfunded the reason people
evacuating California right now is
because they know California's about to
go bankrupt because of pensions
so if CalPERS goes down so the stock
market goes down so does offical as a
401 K so this coronavirus is one thing
but it's really a house of cards or a
set of dominoes ready to start to fall
and it all went back to 1971 the year
Nexen took the dollar off the gold
standard and we could print phony money
and we're still printing funny money
yeah so the rich are getting richer if
you're playing that game of investing
and the poor middle class is getting
poor yeah the first thing that I
realized where things start to look a
little bit backwards when it comes to
pension fund money is that because I
mean I'm in the tech world so when
someone that's in venture capital
private equity they want to go raise
their fund first thing they go to is
pension so it's it's a little bit
backwards because people are giving
money into a pool that was into pension
fund that's the book and you gotta they
go gotta give my god the other managers
Adam Adam addict you got it so you got
it but what do they do like what do
people do like what does my mom do to
make sure she's protected is there is
she just completely helpless in this
state what you couldn't do is what you
can do hate being flippant about what
you can do what you can do sure if if
you could sure if you're a stock trader
you understood how sharp short the
market and play the options market
you're in hog heaven and when this baby
starts coming down like right now a lot
of guys are making more money as a
crashes you make more money in a market
crash but if you don't have that skill
set you're in trouble so develop the
skill set well educate yourself yeah
what do you want to learn how to do I
don't recommend it that's word yeah so I
saw this coming back in 72 when I came
back from Vietnam I went oh my god you
know and my poor Dez had to go back to
let's go get my PhD I said poor helpless
and desperate and I couldn't listen to
him anymore and that's you know we
started this whole thing of our fathers
and our families and you know then the
other thing I don't say is that we have
my poor dad was Japanese Irish that were
Chinese they're two different people I'm
being a racist right now there's a broad
generalization sure yeah but you know
you know every race has its
characteristic and that we're not being
erased us I'm just saying that's its
culture culture yeah and I understand it
because I'm Korean
okay some Korea and I came from Korea
you have from - you have two points of
view look at three Canadian US and well
I live in Mexico City Arena side of the
game and that's that's really that's the
best thing you can do right you know
you're doing something I didn't do so
it's good for you know what answer the
question what can the person do you can
do what you can do or you will learn to
do sure
yeah and it's different for different
people that's why I'm not politically
correct as you can tell they're not
Republican or Democrat I think Trump's
kind of a clown - you know well I think
that's why people like your book you got
you go straight into the point and it's
refreshing because of everything else
that you read in the media is super
fluffy super up in the clouds and it's
positive very positive which is helpful
for some people but it's not really
gonna help them get it done and it seems
like your book is focused on a very
specific type of person that's willing
to go through the difficulties of making
mistakes taking that risk and obviously
it's sold thirty-one to probably fifty
million copies and because of the fact
that it provides a lot of education but
the people that are actually going to
take action are probably gonna be a
fraction of the people so really the
people listening the do you need to
understand if you're the type of person
that can apply the things that you've
taught if you're listening to this
podcast about entrepreneurship you have
a better chance yeah and somebody in
their MBA program McGill because you're
mindsets different or sure absolutely
its mindset to start absolutely so if I
can tell you one more thing about your
race the Koreans yeah the reason I you
know we're talking about Taekwondo and I
fought for the US team in the Olympics
nine one that was all fair you can talk
to people about that yes come sum it up
because because I took up Taekwondo why
did I take Taekwondo because I was
standing in Vietnam as a 19 year old kid
and these people call ROK Marines when
driving by
Roxas Republic of Korea and people were
dodging running from these guys
who are those guys you know I made us
like like Butch Cassidy Sundance Kid who
are those guys this is their Rock
Marines and I said what's so good about
him he says taking they can kill anybody
with nothing and the legend that went
ahead the PR the public went ahead of
the rock Marines there are stories of
these guys the Vietcong would tie them
up and they still kill him whether it
tied up
I said how they do that well then tie
their feet up Taekwondo is all all forms
legs you know kicking so I stuck that on
my back on my head so I want to watch
the rock Marines train when they these
guys have no feelings
[Music]
they make great entrepreneurs though so
I came back to the states and I took up
Taekwondo and I still stuck at it but
you know yeah well American black belt
American black belt in Taekwondo black
belt in Taekwondo you know so I got over
there and I fight for them for America
but explain to you I was a heavyweight
which means I was fat in America in
Korea they're tall and skinny like you
yeah and Koreans and Taekwondo is about
the legs really they could let's call it
cheeki or the hammer they could lift a
leg straight over their heads and they
stand there on one leg and they just
watch you because I met hey he looks
like this leg in the air and I'm just a
little fat guy trying to come up you
know how do I find an opening you can
barely get up here I get into the ring
it said this is not fair but but he's a
heavyweight but he's a skinny
heavyweight right but his legs are like
no no he's like six foot four his legs
are probably eight feet high and I don't
know how high is up in the air I
couldn't come in on him so it made the
mistake us and well no guts no glory
I jumped in on that late came across my
head and I was out I didn't have a
prayer well we're talking about was just
like Karate Kid there was one guy who
was watching the tournaments Korean guy
he didn't speak much English and I
didn't think any Korean he says he got
potential and he took me out into the
country and for two weeks he trained me
mmm there was one of the best experience
I've ever had and when I came back to
the States
I kicked ass mmm because I was trained
in Korean Taekwondo not American
Taekwondo yeah and I was trained by a
real fighter not you know I was pretty
good but he wasn't he was not a real
fighter sure it's a different standard
when you hang around with certain type
of people I feel the same way like I was
when I was 6 or 7
my dad would teach me division and
multiplication and I've got to Canada
when I was 7 and they were doing
subtraction and addition yeah it's just
a different level yes miss Cantrell yes
and it's the mindset and all that so
it's a lot so I said this whole thing is
she to be an entrepreneur well a lot has
to do what your family said about it
mm-hmm
you know my poor dad I was said they're
rich were crooks entrepreneurs were
crooks the rich were greedy school all
you had to do was have a college degree
you were set different cultures yeah I
had to go against all this especially
respecting the father so writing Rich
Dad Poor Dad
oh man that's what you had to die before
I wrote that book he would have killed
me well listen Rob I commend you just
because I understand culturally what you
had to go through from your father from
your mother I understand the family
background so to have unlearned a lot of
the things that you had to do
particularly at an older age for you
right it wasn't it wasn't like me when I
was 7 and and to see how you've been
able to educate hundreds of millions of
people at this point is it was really an
honor to to come talk to you we leave
the audience with one small but
actionable step that they can do after
they listen to this episode
whether it's a specific book you could
recommend whether it's an action step
that they can take to get that one step
further to start the business or you
know in their investment or anything
that they you think they can really help
improve their lifestyle what do you
think that would be I just talked to one
of my best friends he is my real estate
guy Ken McElroy he says he not gonna
they're gonna stop doing talks at
universities mmm Raisa that's the wrong
audience wrong message sure he says I
just came by one mention on the
university he says he was horrible and
he's a good guy he's very smart you know
all this and what he said to the
students he says your education begins
when you leave school what you learn
means nothing that's not good at the
University - yeah he didn't say it that
way but I've said it that way you know I
took the cash flow game once Mike it was
how we teach accounting fastest playing
games goes economies most boring subject
plant possible I took it into a school
system we had like 10 tables we had five
entrepreneurs at one table and five
teachers at other table then we had high
school kids at each table the tables
were the teachers were there was no fun
mmm the kids were sleeping they were
bored they hated it and all this and the
table is where the entrepreneurs were
teaching there was kids were screaming
and yelling having a good time and the
people that hated my casual game the
most was the economics teacher and the
accounting teacher because they were
most at risk as well they didn't
understand it at all not at all the
accounting teacher looked up in a
dictionary she says well this is not the
definition for an asset in my book and I
said and that's why you're a
schoolteacher life isn't found in a book
vited me back will always have you guys
awesome guys will tune in for next week
thank you so much Rob for coming on
for having us a straight suit interview
tune it for next time guys